Okay, I'm Charlie Croyding, which I am.
Okay.
So, for the sake of the tape, we're talking to Catholic chaplain Craig Johnson here at this post here at the HHD 45 CSB, whatever.
Correct.
And you're saying that you were here three years ago?
That's right.
On an earlier posting.
And it was during that period when you, I guess, began to study... Exactly.
First became acquainted with the ruins of Ur and the Ziggurat and all that stuff.
So did you go there just because it was there, or do you have kind of an interest in archaeology, history, or...?
Yeah, actually, you know, that was an interesting amount at a young age, and I actually took field school at Koakia Mountains in...
in Illinois right across the river from where I grew up in St.
Louis when I was a teenager.
So archaeology and the ancients have always been an interest of mine.
So that was a great opportunity to see such an amazing relic when we first got here.
At the time there wasn't any organized plan for taking soldiers out there.
Of course security and accomplishing the mission was the foremost thing.
So now it's great to come back and see that we have a regular
regular schedule of arranged tours for the soldiers.
Were you mindful of its place in the Old Testament?
Absolutely.
If you could just give me a little bit about that.
Sure.
In the book of Genesis, Abraham is mentioned as being from Ur of the Chaldeans, and this is
You know, there's no rock-solid evidence that this is the same Ur that we're talking about.
Exactly.
But certainly, you know, things like the ziggurat show that this city was an important place and has been called Ur since the ancient times.
So we know that.
Exactly.
So it's likely that it's very possible that this could be the same Ur discussed in the Bible.
For how long of a period do you suspect it was inhabited?
They estimate several hundred years.
They think that King Hammurabi, the same one that compiled the laws, conquered this area, and then the focus of energy shifted to Babylon, which was where Hammurabi was the ruler.
So Ur kind of dominated the political and geopolitical landscape in this ancient Sumerian.
for a few hundred years until Hammurabi shifted that energy to Babylon.
So we had the Sumerians, we had the Akkadians, we had the Assyrians, we had the Babylonians.
That's right.
Any number of different really extraordinary cultures.
That's correct.
As I tell the soldiers, this is one of the most fought over pieces of real estate in the world.
not because the Iraqis are any more warmongering than anyone else, but simply because civilization has been here so much longer than in other parts.
Was it always a desert, do you think?
It seems like it, a fairly barren land.
At the time of the empire of the Kingdom of Ur, the Euphrates ran a lot closer.
The banks have shifted over the millennia, so now it's several clicks away.
But at the time, it was much closer, so the people could live on the river and make their land.
Isn't this also the legendary home of the Garden of Eden as well, too?
In this same area.
It's another interesting point.
One of my professors in college was Dr. Southwest Missouri State University.
Oh, I've been there.
Oh, have you?
Well, I wrote about it in one of my books.
Yeah, the Grodzky-Frockner collection is now.
Sure.
Yuri Zarens is a— Do you know if I shoot a couple pictures of that?
Yuri Zarens did some research on where the Garden of Eden might be, and this was one of the regions that he picked out in a fascinating series of articles that was published several years ago.
Do we have a, just to switch gears just to that, and don't mind, but of course this post is just, I guess it's coincidental that we're adjoining this site.
Correct.
It's not because of the site.
You know, I have heard, and I'm speaking outside of my range of authority now, but I've heard that Saddam located the post here in order to offer his airbase the protection of the ziggurat during the Iran-Iraq war that the Iranians wouldn't fire on, you know, would be less likely to fire missiles on.
And, you know, that's likely.
You know, Saddam obviously didn't blanch from
putting facilities next to hospitals and other things.
He was going to bomb a monastery.
That's correct.
So that could very well be.
I do know that during Saddam's era, he would not allow people to climb the ziggurat because he didn't want them spying on Tallul.
That vantage point offered a great view of the whole post.
And so he restricted access to the
to climbing the ziggurat for just that reason.
Do we feel a responsibility as Americans, as tenants, or for a period, a responsibility to preserving the ziggurat?
Absolutely.
In fact, we in the chaplain's office here just rewrote the rules for visiting the ziggurat with that in mind.
As I told my supervisor when we wrote those rules, I said, you know, we're the
for four thousand years you know the history is preserved in a snapshot and we're the current caretakers of it temporarily because it's within our security and so if something happened on my watch you know out there i would feel terrible so certainly that the soldiers are always given a pre-brief before they go out and emphasize respect for the site and the significance of the ruins and the privilege it is to go out there and see these things and certainly the the garrison commander i'm sure would have no
recalcitrance about shutting the site down for tours if he feared that soldiers were going to go out there and abuse that privilege.
I was just visiting a couple of weeks ago.
I was out in Nevada when I saw some of these three thousands or so year old petroglyphs, you know.
Sure.
And there's some of these written cards in their name, you know.
Right.
What a desecration!
Yeah, exactly.
And I'm sure we've had similar kinds of
You know, Saddam held things down with such an iron fist that I'm sure no one would have dared to violate those things during his period.
And so now it's a matter of saying, look at what we can learn.
Look at what this tells us about who we are, where our civilization has come from, to preserve this.
Which is why I don't put much emphasis.
I try not to emphasize, well, we just have to do this so it doesn't reflect badly on us.
But to do it in the positive, to say, look at what we benefit from by maintaining and preserving these sites.
And do you, is this one of your duties?
Exactly.
So you have?
That's correct.
I'm kind of the local expert on the site.
So whenever a VIP such as yourself comes through, I'm always referred to to take them out there.
And then all chaplains do tours for their own soldiers.
So I'll take my unit soldiers out there on that.
We go on Wednesdays and Saturdays.
So you mentioned Woolley's book.
Did he pretty much have it right?
Well, you know, Woolley was a biblical archaeologist.
He went out there with an agenda in mind, and so a lot of his findings are an effort to prove his agenda.
So in one of the pits, you can see what he called evidence for Noah's flood, and certainly modern scholars would debate whether that's evidence of
any such thing at all, except for a period where that site flooded.
Now whether it was a worldwide deluge that wiped out all life on earth, well that would be a, that would be a... Well, then the Bushy did come up with the Gildanash Epic, which it does have a flood.
Yes, absolutely, absolutely.
And they did recover one of the texts here, is that right?
That's correct.
And I'd like to point out, you know, you're talking about an epic poem,
that's a thousand years older than the Odyssey and the Iliad.
That's right, that's right.
And it was preserved in its formative, generative state up until the time it was discovered, because it was really discovered in tablets.
That's correct.
Whereas, you know, Homer is passed on orally for hundreds of years, and then the earliest known text, I've handled it, it's at the Marziana in Venice.
It's the Cardinal Busserian, and it's called Seventh-century common era, you know.
And yet, at that point, the poem's been around for a thousand years.
That's right.
It really is quite a remarkable cultural treasure.
It certainly is, on so many different levels.
You know, not just the religious level with the ziggurat and some of the other temples preserved out there, but also
a really good snapshot of everyday life, the everyday houses that they've uncovered out there.
And we'll have a chance to see some of that today.
Absolutely.
And I'm really eager to see anything that imparts to me a formulation of writing.
Sure.
Are there any spaces there that you think may have been libraries or storehouses?
Unlike in Nineveh where they actually found thousands upon thousands of tablets in the
But they've come to call, Archie Byron's palace library, which I had really hoped to get out and see.
Sure.
It's not happening on this trip.
Yeah, you know, one of the really lucky things is we do have this site inside security, you know, inside American security, so that guests can move in there freely.
Places like Nineveh and Babylon and other places, it takes a lot to take a visitor there because it's not within security.
It's problematic at best.
Indeed.
Kind of ironic, isn't it, when you think to, I know from my standpoint, you talk about books, I always feel that where there are books, there's hope, you know.
Have you seen the library at Ephesus?
I have.
That's wonderful.
And in that particular book, of course, I went to Turkey.
I had been to Ephesus with my wife many years ago, first married, but I really wanted to go visit Pergamum.
Oh, yeah.
Which I wrote about.
Because this was really established as the rival library to Alexandria.
And while nothing exists of the original Alexandrian library, the ruins of the Pergamum library are there.
You know, we know where it was, the floor plans.
Right.
And that really was something for me to go in.
I really get something when I...
walk among the spirits of the ancients or whatever.
I really feel it.
I feel it very profoundly.
I'm really looking forward to this.
My last assignment being in Naples, Italy, I took my folks and other people to come visit me out to Pompeii, and you get that same kind of feeling walking through Pompeii.
That's a frozen Italian thing.
Even the graffiti there.
Isn't that amazing?
It just tells you how much the Romans, how literate so many of them work.
That's right.
You know the most visited artifact in the British Museum?
And even I think it's more so than the Parthenon Frieses.
The Rosetta Stone?
Exactly.
And it's a text.
When you look at it, it's a text.
You've got it right on your head.
It's the Rosetta Stone that you're penetrating a civilization
that cared enough to write about itself or to write something down.
And do we get a sense of that out here?
Yeah, you know, I think that the living history beyond that is in the Iraqis that live and work around the site, you know.
Saddam worked hard, it's kind of funny, Saddam worked hard to kind of represent himself as the next Nebuchadnezzar, you know, so many of his
of the seals and things that he would put up would show his face and profile with Nebuchadnezzar like he was you can yeah you can buy some of that stuff at the little souvenir stand and he pushed so hard to make that image up and yet you know I think that the real living history is is captured in the common people not not in you know some pompous display of of arrogant power but in
and the ordinary Iraqis who still live and work around the site.
You know, I always tell soldiers we're lucky in the sense that if this were in the United States, you wouldn't get anywhere near it.
You know, there'd be a big fence around it, and you'd take a look at it from a distance.
And only scientists and archaeologists would be allowed to actually approach it.
But here, everything, you know, you can walk down into the tombs and climb to the top of the ziggurat and walk through the House of Abraham, and it's all so... And we're going to do all that today.
Certainly.
it's all so uh so approachable and i think that's part of the you know part of the the great thing about the ruins is you know it was the great depression that stopped will leave's dig he had to return to britain because he just ran out of funds and so in a lot of ways it's still sitting there the way it was when he left it in 1934 you know he uh he backfilled some of the pits that were simply open holes to protect the local people from
falling in them but so much of what he uncovered is uncovered exactly the way he uncovered it and has it been despoiled at all in the years you know obviously all the artifacts have been removed any any vestige of anything he might have found that was worth anything but really no it's it's in remarkable shape given uh given the building materials they had and and the kind of weather we have in this part of the world it's it's all in remarkable shape as you'll see and there's uh i was talking to a pilot last night
flies as Sherpas.
And he's a Vietnam War veteran, too, if you can believe it.
He actually flew helicopters.
And here he is flying Sherpas again.
He's 58 years old.
That's a very interesting story.
Absolutely.
But he said, when he's up there flying, he's been thinking quite every year.
And he said, it's remarkable to me that such a great series of civilizations that emerged from this area where there is no, and I never thought of this, no
You made an adjective out of it, no quariable stone.
And I said, gee, you know, they had to really do things differently.
And that explains the architecture, I guess.
And then I thought that also explains the way they developed their writing system, because it was really incised into clay tablets, which they either baked or put out in the sun to dry.
But yet, the first has also proven to be the most resilient, indeed.
You know, it's not like paper or papyrus or any other medium.
And you know, they didn't fire their bricks, they sun-dried their bricks.
They sun-dried them.
They were baked in the sun.
Right.
So even that is such a perishable medium.
And when you consider the size of the things they produced, you know, in this country.
Like I say, the ziggurat is an impressive thing at all.
But other places in Iraq, like Hatra and Nineveh and Babylon,
Just remarkable stuff, given the, like you say, the lack of stone and other building blocks that the Romans and Greeks used to create.
So which is larger, actually, than this one, or is Nineveh more?
This is the largest.
The ziggurat here is the largest ziggurat in the world.
It's the best preserved and largest ziggurat in the world.
Now what exactly is a ziggurat?
How do you distinguish it from, say, a pyramid or whatever?
Correct.
A ziggurat is a step pyramid.
And so the architectural difference is that you start with a level and then build up from there.
And a ziggurat's main function is to elevate the temple to the top, to put the temple as high as you can.
Whereas a pyramid has the burial chambers and all that kind of thing in it.
A ziggurat's a solid structure.
There's no...
There's no passageways or burial chambers in the ziggurat.
If you peel away the layer of bricks, you just find a mound of mud underneath.
And its function was, obviously, it was a holy site.
That's correct.
Veneration of their own, their deities.
Exactly.
It's believed that the temple was to the moon god.
There's no, again, the proofs of that are scarce, but that's the best guess.
But there are no inscriptions there that would suggest anything else to it.
No, no.
And in fact, you know, the ziggurat was considered a lost monument when Woolley came here.
So a lot of what you'll see was kind of refinished in the 60s to give it a cleaner look.
But there was a mound of sand covering it, and then Woolley basically uncovered it and showed where the staircases were and that kind of thing.
So the upper two layers are gone now.
All that remains is the lower central level.
When was it built?
It was built 2100 B.C., so about 4,000 years ago.
Yeah.
And do you find it unfortunate that they did try to rebuild it?
You know, after a sense, but when you've seen, you know, when I was here three years ago, I traveled all over Iraq and saw some of the other ziggurats, and some of them are in such wretched shape.
It's really just...
a mound of mud.
You know, it doesn't look any different than any other mound of mud in the States.
Or some of them are just a small pile of bricks around a foundation.
So here I think it preserves the central idea of the ziggurat.
And some of the layers are original.
Not all the bricks are new.
But mostly they just kind of refinish the edges along the top and some other areas.
You can definitely tell what's a new brick and what's an ancient brick.
So no, I don't think it detracts from the site.
I think had they rebuilt it all and put a new temple on top and all that, then it would have, I think that would have taken something away.
Now you get the essential character of the monument without that.
Especially to check on the observation of the chief last night, who is flying over this countryside, and he says how remarkable it is that they have no, and he used it, made an adjective, no quarryable stone.
And so these are bricks that were made.
So it really is quite an advanced civilization.
It's not just
It's not just carving stone out of the landscape and getting slaves to move it in place.
You're actually pyramids.
Yeah, like pyramids.
No, I see the accomplishments of the ancient citizens at Ur to be on the same, and Nineveh, to be on the same level as the Romans and the Greeks as far as their architecture is concerned.
Sure.
They use the arch, the inclined plane, and all of these other
you know, things that the Romans are so famous for, innovating, they were doing it a thousand years before the Romans started building.
It was still Etruscan building.
Exactly.
How large did the community here?
I think it was like 4,000 years ago.
Exactly.
How did they get their water?
The Euphrates at the time ran much closer to the site, so actually this was on the banks of the Euphrates at the time.
But 4,000 is a pretty good metropolitan area.
I mean, how do they deal with such things as sewage and, you know, water?
Well, of course, you have to have a natural.
Sure.
You'll see some of the drain plumbing system, the rudimentary plumbing system that they had within the houses out there.
The drains are still in place, and so you'll see the way they would drain off rainwater, and, you know, I'm sure they had systems for moving, you know, animals and so forth for moving water up from the river.
Let me hear what we're doing.
After being down there, he's waiting for the S-1's guy to come back with an NTP.
If that doesn't fail, after about 15, 20 minutes, we have to do a Humvee.
We know where we'll be able to get out there.
He'll run over and pick up some y'alls, Kevlar and stuff.
And then... Take the Kevlar out of there?
Yeah, you gotta wear the... To ride a Humvee, you gotta wear a Kevlar as a Humvee.
But I think at this point,
If it's an issue of seeing or not seeing... So in the meantime, I don't know what you guys, what all you have to say is to cover, but... I'm really very eager to get out to the site.
He's trying to say that right now.
They're waiting for the Sergeant Major to come back.
I can't believe the buses don't go out there.
Is it just not... The problem is, sir, that we don't want people going out to the site.
i thought it might be a museum i didn't know what it was as i learned later it was a documentary center but there it is papers scattered all over the floor and the door had been broken so i closed the doors and put my lock off of my duffel bag on it just because i felt you know i didn't know what that would do but you were 101st at the time no actually i was in the gulf court with 101st i was chaplain for the 7th transportation battalion four uses three years ago so
We were at the original Camp Cedar, and I had people here on Tallil, and I'd come over and visit them every week, so I'd stop by and just take a look.
But near the end of the war, they did string barbed wire across the entrance to, I'd say probably in April or May, they strung barbed wire across the entrance to hurry and keep people out.
And then they controlled the chaplains, kind of fell into that job of taking people out for tours.
Now, when I got back here last November, you know, it was definitely codified into the chaplains,
ran the show out there.
And as I was just telling him, I had a hand in rewriting the regulations for the site just to kind of control access even further.
There was not really abuses, but just people were treating it as more, you know, I just want to go out there and let's all stand on the steps and pull the American flag up and that kind of stuff.
And we just wanted to keep a closer reign on that kind of stuff.
I noticed, and I mentioned this to Nick, is it Chaplain Rahim?
Is that what you say, Chaplain?
Chaplain Rahim.
26 years in the Army, he's the first Muslim chaplain I've ever seen.
I've seen the AFN commercial or whatever it is where they show one, but I did notice it here.
I'm curious, does he do a different...
perspective of the ziggurat?
Actually, he's not stationed here.
He's just on a tour through Iraq.
He's actually back in Hanau, Germany, with me, in the same area as my unit.
He's just come through for a week.
He's been out there for a tour, but he's not conducting any tours out there.
Have there been archaeologists that have requested to come out and see it?
Not so far.
actually sir one of the programs that i'm working on is to uh i would like to under under the guise of the uso i would like to bring some experts over here to give them a chance to see the site and to give a talk to the you know talk to the soldiers about it
one of my professors from seminary and one of my professors from college are both very knowledgeable about the area and of course during the saddam era all that was was impossible after the gulf war and then you know it'll be another 20 years at least before this country's stable enough for that kind of work to begin in earnest so i would i would imagine so i i just i've written the uso and and you know it's part of my naively kind of bumping around in the dark to try and figure out how to do this but
i'd love to be able to bring you know some guys over here like i say they could give a talk to the troops and you know that would serve their function as far as what contribution they make to the army but they would also give some of these scholars and so they couldn't guarantee he interrupt correct so he couldn't so he did not end up coming here but they rebuilt the house of abraham for his for his visit
And they did a beautiful job.
They used the same—they made the building materials the same way they made them 2,000 years ago.
How can they be sure it was the House of Abraham?
Is that just a speculative— Yes, exactly.
The same as—the other chaplains get mad at me when I say that, but it's the same as when you pull—whenever they pull a boat from the floor of the Sea of Galilee, it's always Peter's boat, you know?
What were the debates over where the ark landed?
Well, the chaplain was saying that earlier, you know, that this is the site of the flood, Willie, this is the thing.
Right.
And the other thing is too, this is kind of like Salzburg is for Mozart fans.
Everybody goes to Salzburg for the big Mozart festival.
Mozart hated Salzburg and couldn't wait to get the heck out of there.
In Salzburg though, every other street corner is Mozart flops and there's a statue of Mozart here and a house of Mozart here.
Yeah, right.
And the fact is, Mozart didn't like being in Salzburg and got out of it as soon as he got old enough to leave home.
And Abraham was the same way with Ur.
He didn't spend much time here in Ur.
He was born here, but then all of his significant acts in his life were outside of Ur.
So Ur can claim him, but it's not like this was all of Abraham's life.
He definitely lives here, though.
I mean, is that part pretty...
So much as you can rely on ancient literature, so much as you can rely on that this is the same earth, that's what the ancients were talking about.
And it meets a lot of the requirements.
Certainly, we can't be for sure, it's been so long ago, but certainly this meets a lot of the requirements of the ancient earth.
It was a city of great size and a city of great wealth.
The house of Abraham that they rebuilt, they basically rebuilt one of the larger houses out there.
They built it along the original foundation.
So that...
What does the word er mean?
Does it mean original?
Well, it's come to mean that.
Yeah, it's come to mean the first.
Like you said, the er text.
Well, it's like Rosetta Stone has come to mean the means by which you
You decipher, but Rosetta was just the name of a place where they found a stone.
It's a place name.
It's a name.
I have not heard any meaning attached to it.
I've heard theories, but it's just a place name.
And in the study of manuscripts, they use the phrase, it's the Ur text.
The Ur text, of course, is the original text.
Are you contemplating writing anything...
out of your experience working at this?
It's kind of a historic... I've written a couple of things.
I wrote one for my denominational magazine, you know, and that kind of thing for my seminary newsletter.
Do you have a copy of it?
Just a little brief thing.
Well, would it be possible to get a copy?
Would you want something like that, Nick?
I'd love it, sure.
I could work on that.
Okay.
Actually, I'll give you my card, too.
I mean, I think we already have an email anyway, but... Sure.
I'm trying to... You know, I'm looking at this with two perspectives right now.
I'm looking at it...
Some of the things Daith has said I can't find any, you know, I can't find in the research.
One of the things Daith will know from every group coming out here is this is the oldest arch in the world.
This is the oldest standing arch in the world.
If it's 4,000 years old, then it is.
It's older than any Roman ruin.
But, of course, the Chinese, there are a dozen other cultures that competed with us for ancient ruins, so I don't know.
It's not in the literature anywhere.
But this is a temple to a pantheon of God.
This is a smaller temple that the common people would come to on their way to worship.
I can guarantee you it was.
The original bricks, some of these in and along here are the original bricks.
The original bricks, of course, as we talked about, were dried in the sun.
They were not kiln-fired.
And they are mortared with tar.
And if it's a gray tar, like right in here, then it's original.
This is cement.
And Woolley would have refinished this.
So in order to keep this arch standing, some of the bricks he kind of remortared and filled in with cement.
So which is an original again?
This is an original here, this gray kind of tar.
And this is obviously cement.
There's many places throughout the ruins.
Black tar, an inch thick.
The original tar was a sap tar, not a petroleum-based one, so it's kind of gray.
So this was a temple.
The altar, you know, the place where the gods were kept, were up on this one.
and then the worshippers were down here.
Woolley capped the walls in the 30s with cement in order to keep the walls standing except for that layer of cement.
And that arch has not been rebuilt.
That's correct.
They basically just shorted up by, like I say, inserting some cement in between the bricks on the sides.
But the arch itself was, according to Dye, is the oldest standing arch.
And they estimate the age of it again?
About equal with the big round.
2100.
Isn't that something?
Very astonishing.
Now, what's this on top, this covering?
Is that authentic, too?
Right, this cemented instrument that Leonard Woolley kept with in the 1930s in order to keep the walls standing.
So, not necessarily a bad thing?
No.
Obviously, I'm sure it's helped to work together.
There's usually a reason for us to be selected.
My understanding is all the signs I've been out of here before, they tend to say it with a pro-Saddam kind of glance.
And they haven't been there either.
They don't really mention Saddam, they just mention like the greatness of the kingdom, you know.
There's one very pro-Saddam sign in the parking lot, which is all painted
These bricks, basically, when this was uncovered,
Right, the walls had fallen over and Woolie just basically cleaned out.
But these are original, yes, these walls.
Remarkable.
How far back this way, like, do those cover, are those covered part of the site as well?
Yeah, we're going to go all the way, almost to the road.
That is not what the tinea form was, though.
Well, we're going to get there, right?
Uh-huh.
.
Your father and your grandfather as well?
Yes.
My grandfather, he walked here in 1922.
My father also, he walked here in 1912.
And I walked here in 1913.
What do you learn from your grandfather and your father about this place?
What kinds of things do they teach you?
Yes.
I know that they teach you
They wrote it in a map, but from my father and my grandfather, which has this building and this building and the same old.
They're talking about the stories of the excavators who walked them and the objects which they found.
Also, they're talking about the places which excavated only and the places not excavated.
And they thought that the excavators, they excavated only the top.
They not reached to the real land.
Some of the excavators, when they excavated,
they're taking these objects and putting it in places not excavated.
So they felt that this was not good because they're not excavated that places and then taking the remains of what was just excavated this place and putting it in another side, not excavated.
How many great things do you think still remain to be anterior?
I thought when they excavated in the future they found more than now because
All the excavators, they excavated just some parts.
And also, all the excavators, they not reach to the real land.
They excavated only the top.
And my grandfather, he said to me that the richest layer, the deepest.
The layer which is a tablet and important things, not on the top.
And what was your grandfather's name?
My grandfather called Hussein.
My father is called Mohsen, and my name is Dyer.
My grandfather, he worked with Sir Leonard Willey, an excavator from America, from the Museum of Pennsylvania University.
Do you think that there are still some tablets, uniform tablets here?
Yes, sir, because time of Saddam is 35 years.
He does not give his attention to the ancient cities, to the tourism, to the excavation.
When they rebuilt the house of Prophet Abraham because the Pope wanted to hear, they excavated just some places.
And not a big group.
Excavator only, the group, the workers, a number of them, not many, and they found tablets, jars, gold.
Really?
Yes.
So this means that when they excavated in the future, they found many things.
Because small group, and they found these things.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
It's a pleasure to meet you.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Were you here in 1994?
Exactly.
I worked here in 1995.
I was here in 1994.
Yes, I am here as a house, but I worked here in 1995.
There was an Iraqi here when I came here before.
Yes, my grandfather, my father.
You seemed older and more...
Punched.
Old man?
I can't remember.
Older than you.
Imitator credits?
I don't know.
I have pictures, but they're in the United States.
They're in a box.
Yeah, because another here, many, they came.
Yes, my father, he was here.
But in 1991, also, some of the village, some of them from the center of the city came to here.
Because there have been many problems there.
So some of them, they came here.
Another go to the desert.
And because here America, 1991, so the people came to here, they thought the police or the security forces of Saddam, they not came to catch them here.
So yes, maybe my father, you must him.
What is your favorite place of the whole site?
The royal tombs and the ziggurat, all of them, the house of Prophet Abraham also.
So you cannot see what they have.
All of them ancient cities, all of them things.
But in my idea, the royal prunes under the ground and everything.
But also the house of Prophet Abraham, this is also important.
Thank you.